---
title: 468B
layout: post
category: codeforces
tags: [disjoint sets]
---


### Description  
<br/>
We have $$n$$ ($$1 \leq n \leq 10^5$$) distinct integers $$q_1~q_n$$, $$a$$ and $$b$$.
There are two sets $$A$$ and $$B$$.
If $$x$$ belongs to $$A$$, $$A$$ must also contains $$a-x$$.
It is the same with $$B$$ and $$b$$.
Output how $$q$$s can be divided into the two sets.
Each $$q$$ belongs and only belongs to one set.
<br/>

### Tutorial  
<br/>
If we have number $$x$$ and $$a-x$$, they should be in the same set.
If $$x$$ belongs to $$A$$, it is obvious that $$a-x$$ belongs to $$A$$.
If $$x$$ is not in $$A$$, then $$a-x$$ cannot find its partner in $$A$$, so they it cannot be in $$A$$ any more.
Therefore, they can only all be in $$B$$.
It is the same as the number x, b - x.

In additon, we should also know that if $$a-x$$ does not exist, $$x$$ can only belong to $$B$$.
It is the same as $$A$$.

So we can use Disjoint Sets to solve this problem.
Join the $$q$$s that must belongs to one set.
Join those who must belong to $$A$$ with a special node.
Join those who must belong to $$B$$ with another special node.
Finally, if the two special nodes are in joined, there is no solution.
Otherwise, solution exists.

Use STL map to get the positions of $$a-x$$ and $$b-x$$.
<br/>


### Solution  
<br/>

	#include <cstdio>
	#include <map>
	#include <algorithm>
	using namespace std;
	
	#define D(x) 
	#define MAX_N 100005
	
	int sum_a, sum_b;
	int f[MAX_N];
	int n;
	
	struct Disjoint_sets
	{
		int father[MAX_N];
	
		Disjoint_sets()
		{}
	
		Disjoint_sets(int n)
		{
			for (int i = 0; i < n; i++)
			{
				father[i] = i;
			}
		}
	
		int root(int a)
		{
			int ret = a;
			while (father[ret] != ret)
				ret = father[ret];
			while (father[a] != a)
			{
				int b = a;
				a = father[a];
				father[b] = ret;
			}
			return ret;
		}
	
		void join(int a, int b)
		{
			father[root(a)] = father[root(b)];
		}
	}d_set;
	
	void input()
	{
		scanf("%d%d%d", &n, &sum_a, &sum_b);
		for (int i = 0; i < n; i++)
		{
			scanf("%d", &f[i]);
		}
	}
	
	bool work()
	{
		d_set = Disjoint_sets(n + 2);
		map<int, int> pos;
		for (int i = 0; i < n; i++)
		{
			pos[f[i]] = i;
		}
		for (int i = 0; i < n; i++)
		{
			if (pos.find(sum_a - f[i]) != pos.end())
			{
				d_set.join(i, pos[sum_a - f[i]]);
			}else
			{
				d_set.join(i, n);
			}
			if (pos.find(sum_b - f[i]) != pos.end())
			{
				d_set.join(i, pos[sum_b - f[i]]);
			}else
			{
				d_set.join(i, n + 1);
			}
		}
		return d_set.root(n) != d_set.root(n + 1);
	}
	
	void output()
	{
		puts("YES");
		for (int i = 0; i < n; i++)
		{
			if (i != 0)
			{
				putchar(' ');
			}
			if (d_set.root(i) == d_set.root(n))
			{
				putchar('1');
			}else
			{
				putchar('0');
			}
		}
	}
	
	int main()
	{
		input();
		if (!work())
		{
			puts("NO");
		}else
		{
			output();
		}
		return 0;
	}
